[Music]
welcome to the next session on learn
before you saw in the first part of the
video we understood about the general
structure of dynamic CMOS design and its
basic working principle in this video we
will understand how to implement the
function f equal to a plus B dot C the
whole bar using dynamic CMOS design to
implement the given function using
dynamic CMOS design first let us
recollect the general structure of
dynamic CMOS design and then we'll
proceed for the given logic so initially
we had the pre-charge transistor which
was denoted by e em suffix P it is going
to be a P MOS transistor and then we had
an evaluation transistor which was
denoted as M suffix key and this would
be a n MOS transistor and then we will
have in between this pre-charge and
evaluation phase we will have a PD and
logic and this will be again implemented
using and the other important point is
in a dynamic logic all the signal values
are going to be stored in a capacitor so
we will have an output capacitance
capacitor which is denoted by C it is a
load capacitor and this dynamic logic
operates in two phases one is pre-charge
phase and evaluation phase so for that
these two phases are going to be
controlled by the clock signal which is
denoted by CL K so these are the
prerequisite for understanding the
dynamic CMOS design to implement the PD
logic for F equal to a plus B dot C the
whole bar for dynamic CMOS design also
we are going to implement only the
pulldown logic
so we are not bothered about the pull-up
network so if you are going to do the
pull-up network when Li we love to go
for applying de Morgan's law and all
other stuffs so here we will be doing
just the calculation of FL where FN is
up time by recollecting the static CMOS
design principle Aaron will just take a
complement of the given function so that
we can get the N Mo's pulldown network
so this expression is going to denote
you the pulldown network now
implementing this pulldown logic we have
two rules this is plus which is going to
denote as some will be in terms of
parallel connection of transistors and
this dot is representing the
multiplication so if it is
multiplication then the transistors will
be connected in terms of series so now
we will proceed so it is going to be a
all are going to be n Mo's transistors
so it is a B dot C so B dot C is going
to be anyway in series since we have a
plus B dot C we are going to connect it
in parallel so let us extend this line
also to connect in parallel and now we
will have a pre-charge transistor under
evaluation transistor so that we love to
set up so here we will have pre charge
transistor which is denoted in terms of
P Mo's and we have an evaluation
transistor which is denoted by Y n wash
so n MOS will be grounded and the p MOS
source will be connected to VDD and the
output will be taken at this point which
is going to be F equal to a plus B dot C
the whole bar and we love to connect it
to use ik
this'll be your see it because it is a
dynamic CMOS design all the outputs are
going to be stored in this output
capacitance CL now let us check whether
the implemented dynamic CMOS design
works perfectly for F equal to a plus B
dot C the whole bar with some specific
values for the first case let us
consider a equal to zero B equal to zero
and C equal to zero so if a B and C are
0 and let us also assume that clock is
equal to 0 if clock is equal to 0 then P
Mo's transistor will turn on
therefore the pre-charge transistor is
on and since clock is zero my evaluation
transistor will be in off condition as
the Prima's recharge transistor is on it
pulls the output node 2 equals the
output node to VDD and this VDD is
completely stored in this load capacitor
C so therefore now CL will be pre
charged to VDD in this stage the N Mo's
transistor that the evaluation
transistor is completely in off
condition so that the pulldown path is
completely disabled and here also we can
say that a 0 B is 0 and C is 0 so if all
these things are 0 it is going to remain
disabled and for clock zero definitely
we cannot come here for the evaluation
phase evaluation phase will take turn on
one he when the clock is 1 so therefore
at this stage we cannot substitute and
find out what is the output F equal to
either it is going to be 1 or 0 in the
pre-charge fish now let's look it well 2
1 so therefore my evaluation transistor
n Mo's will turn on and P MOS which is
the pre-charge transistor will not turn
on for a high input so therefore that
will remind us in off condition so this
is an off condition now let us
find out what are the values for a B and
C all these are going to remain as 0
again all these are three enemas pass
transistors these three n MOS pass
transistors will turn on one leaf or up
high input since zero is a low end but
all these three and mass pass
transistors will remain in off condition
so therefore the evaluation path has not
enabled evaluation transistor has not
enabled this calculation so by
calculating this you will not will not
be able to attain any results because
all these transistors are an off
condition therefore my VC L will retain
its already stored pre-charged value to
VDD if we substitute the values for a b
and c also we can see that it is going
to be whole bar so obviously if all
these things are going to be 0 the
complement of 0 will remain us 1 so the
equivalent of 1 is almost the VDD higher
supply voltage now we will cross it for
the second case where in here we are
going to consider different values where
a is going to be 0 B will remind us 1
and C will be equal to 0 now again
considering clock equal to 0 what will
happen my VC L will be in VDD it will
have a pre charged value at this stage
the evaluation transistor eme will
remain off so there for evaluation and
the substitution of all these values
cannot be done and the output
capacitance will store the pre charge to
value VDD now substituting clock equal
to 1 it will enter into the evaluation
phase so now we can substitute the
inputs equal to 0 here B is 1 and C is 0
we can see here this n must pass
transistor will be in off condition
because it is not going to turn on for
low input and here clock is 1 so
therefore this will be this
we'll be in on condition this is zero so
therefore this PMO's transistor will be
in off and here this n Mo's transistor
will also have again in off condition
this one this is one so therefore this
will be in on condition now look at here
the connection is in parallel this fan
either Y and B dot C are in parallel so
therefore even if any one path is on we
can say that the output can be
discharged to grow but here we can see
that B and C are seriously connected
since they are seriously connected both
has to be in on condition but here we
can see that it is one is an on and the
other one is in off condition so
therefore this series path is also
disabled this path is also disabled so
even though we have substituted the
inputs and the club evaluation
transistor is also one we cannot attain
CL to zero because only if all these
paths if this path is aren't only if
this PD and logic is on this
Emme transistor will try to pull down
the output to zero but here this PD and
logic is completely disabled here so
this PD in path is disabled we cannot
evaluate so the evaluation goes wrong
since they are in off condition and here
one transistor is an off condition so
therefore this series path also doesn't
work so the effort is completely
disabled then the VC L will try to store
the pre-charged previously stored the
value VDD so now we can even substitute
the values for and see the logical
expression output so 0 plus 1 dot 0 so
that is also going to be 1 so f is equal
to 1 which is equal and to VDD higher
value so here also we can say that the
implementation is completely correct for
the given logic now let us see one more
case inputs with a
and see with different values such that
the input values are going to create a
low resistance path between the output
and the ground value so it has to pull
down the pre-charge the value to ground
so such values we are going to take it
for our consideration so here I am going
to consider for case three so one such
combination is a equal to 1 and B equal
to 0 and my C will remind to 1 so this
is the case that we are going to
consider now again we will substitute as
usual clock will be 0 initially and
therefore my MP transistor will be in on
condition
Emme will remain evaluation transistor
will remain an off condition so complete
the PD n path will be disabled the n MOS
transistor at the bottom will ensure
that no static power is consumed at this
pre-charge 2 period so that is the
biggest advantage the inputs to the gate
can therefore make at least only one
transition during evaluation so once the
clock is 0 this evaluation phase will
not work so therefore my vc l will be
again pre charge to be ready so this
value will have come here okay so this
is nothing but pre charge to value VDD
now we will go for the next case where
we will consider clock equal to 1 now
the evaluation transistor is an on
condition now let us substitute the
values for a B and C so here at this
stage clock is 1 so therefore this PMO's
transistor will be in off clock is 1 in
my evaluation transistor goes on yes one
so that for this n Mo's will turn on for
high input B is 0 this will be in rough
condition and C is 1 this will be in on
condition now here we can see that first
let us look into the series connection
this series connection we can see that
this is an off condition this is an on
condition for series connection both the
transistors has to be in on condition so
here one is off and the other
on so therefore this path doesn't work
but here we can look at this a this
transistor isn't on so therefore this
path is on here we can see that ei and B
dot C are parallel to each other so for
parallel connection even if any one path
is enabled so that is enough for us so
here this a path is enabled so therefore
we can see the connection like this
now the pre-charged a value which is VD
D will be pulled down to zero so
therefore the low resistance path is
existing between this out on the ground
so therefore the evaluation transistor
is trying to bring down the output value
previously stored value to zero so now
the output here that will be stored here
will be zero so now F is f should be
zero now let us substitute the values
for F equal to a plus B dot C the whole
bar and check whether we are obtaining F
equal to zero so VC L will be equal to
zero here so it does 1 plus 1 dot 0 is 0
so complement of 1 will be 0 therefore
we have obtained the correct value so
with this we can conclude that the
design we have implemented is correct
for the given logic F equal to a plus B
dot C the whole bar so this is how we
can confirm whether we have implemented
the logic correctly so this applies for
any logic even we can solve and apply
for static CMOS design and check whether
we have applied or implemented the logic
correctly now the main objective is to
calculate the number of transistors
required for implementing the given
logic using dynamic CMOS design so if we
are calculating the number of
transistors required then we can see
that the total number of transistors
require yes for implementing the
pull-down logic we require three
transistors so therefore three less two
transistors one is for the pre-charge
transistor and the other one is your
evaluation transistor so always it is in
general for dynamic CMOS design for
implementing a logic in dynamic CMOS
design the number of transistors
required will be yen less to amount of
transistors so here in this case for
this particular expression we require
five transistors whereas in static CMOS
design we require two in amount of
transistors which was six transistors we
require for implementing F equal to ei
plus B dot C de kolbar so here by using
dynamic CMOS design we have reduced
actually the number of transistors
required for implementing the given
logic hence to summarize the properties
of dynamic CMOS design we know that the
PD logic is similar to that of the
static CMOS implementation so the n MOS
pedia network is going to be similar to
the static CMOS pdn implementation so
there is no change in that
but we change in the p MOS network the
pull-up network is not completely
implemented instead of that pull-up
network we have two extra transistors so
therefore we require n plus two so if
the given logic is a three input logic
then we require n amount of transistor
less to log transistors where these two
transistors are required for
implementing the pre-charge phase and
the evaluation phase of the dynamic CMOS
design so that is the biggest advantage
of dynamic CMOS design only because of
that the inputs to the gate are able to
make only one transition during the
evaluation phase and therefore the
number of
stress required will be always less when
compared to the static CMOS design also
we can see that there is no static
current path between VDD so here we had
our VDD and then we had our pre-charge
transistor and then we had the pulldown
logic so from here both the drains will
be connected and output will be taken
here and the output is stored in CL and
then we had the evaluation transistor
and then there is a graph so here this
is the dynamic CMOS design so here we
don't have any straight connection
between this VDD and ground because both
these pre charge and evaluation
transistors they are controlled by the
clock signal if clock is zero this every
Church face will turn off and the output
path will exist between VDD and out and
if clock is equal to 1 the output path
will exist this face will be cut off and
the output path will exist finely
between output and grow so either you
will have connection between VDD to
output or you will have connection
between ground to output but no straight
connection will happen between VDD and
ground so therefore we call this as no
static current path existence between
VDD and ground also because of less
number of transistors required the
switching speeds will be very faster so
this kind of dynamic CMOS design can be
very much helpful in high-speed CMOS
circuits one major problem in the design
of dynamic circuits is in the direct
cascading of dynamic circuits the
cascading of dynamic gates fails and the
cascaded circuit does not work due to
local glitch issues glitch usually
refers to a sudden malfunction or a
Fault in the circuit hence Domino logic
is the proper solution to the cascading
problem in dynamic CMOS design to
understand that cascading problem in
dynamo
Seema's design and the need for Domino
logic will be explained in the next
video session until then stay safe thank
you all for watching the video through
electronics inside channel